The Boy Who Lived
Mr and Mrs Dursley, of number four, Privet Drive, were proud to
say that they were perfectly normal, thank you very much. They
were the last people you’d expect to be involved in anything
strange or mysterious, because they just didn’t hold with such
nonsense.
Mr Dursley was the director of a firm called Grunnings, which
made drills. He was a big, beefy man with hardly any neck,
although he did have a very large moustache. Mrs Dursley was
thin and blonde and had nearly twice the usual amount of neck,
which came in very useful as she spent so much of her time craning
over garden fences, spying on the neighbours. The Dursleys had a
small son called Dudley and in their opinion there was no finer
boy anywhere.
The Dursleys had everything they wanted, but they also had a
secret, and their greatest fear was that somebody would discover
it. They didn’t think they could bear it if anyone found out about
the Potters. Mrs Potter was Mrs Dursley’s sister, but they hadn’t
met for several years; in fact, Mrs Dursley pretended she didn’t
have a sister, because her sister and her good-for-nothing husband
were as unDursleyish as it was possible to be. The Dursleys
shuddered to think what the neighbours would say if the Potters
arrived in the street. The Dursleys knew that the Potters had a
small son, too, but they had never even seen him. This boy was
another good reason for keeping the Potters away; they didn’t
want Dudley mixing with a child like that.
When Mr and Mrs Dursley woke up on the dull, grey Tuesday
our story starts, there was nothing about the cloudy sky outside to
suggest that strange and mysterious things would soon be happening all over the country. Mr Dursley hummed as he picked out
his most boring tie for work and Mrs Dursley gossiped away
 HARRY POTTER
happily as she wrestled a screaming Dudley into his high chair.
None of them noticed a large tawny owl flutter past the window.
At half past eight, Mr Dursley picked up his briefcase, pecked
Mrs Dursley on the cheek and tried to kiss Dudley goodbye but
missed, because Dudley was now having a tantrum and throwing
his cereal at the walls. ‘Little tyke,’ chortled Mr Dursley as he left
the house. He got into his car and backed out of number four’s
drive.
It was on the corner of the street that he noticed the first sign
of something peculiar – a cat reading a map. For a second, Mr
Dursley didn’t realise what he had seen – then he jerked his head
around to look again. There was a tabby cat standing on the corner
of Privet Drive, but there wasn’t a map in sight. What could
he have been thinking of? It must have been a trick of the light.
Mr Dursley blinked and stared at the cat. It stared back. As Mr
Dursley drove around the corner and up the road, he watched the
cat in his mirror. It was now reading the sign that said Privet Drive
– no, looking at the sign; cats couldn’t read maps or signs. Mr
Dursley gave himself a little shake and put the cat out of his
mind. As he drove towards town he thought of nothing except a
large order of drills he was hoping to get that day.
But on the edge of town, drills were driven out of his mind by
something else. As he sat in the usual morning traffic jam, he
couldn’t help noticing that there seemed to be a lot of strangely
dressed people about. People in cloaks. Mr Dursley couldn’t bear
people who dressed in funny clothes – the get-ups you saw on
young people! He supposed this was some stupid new fashion. He
drummed his fingers on the steering wheel and his eyes fell on a
huddle of these weirdos standing quite close by. They were whispering excitedly together. Mr Dursley was enraged to see that a
couple of them weren’t young at all; why, that man had to be older
than he was, and wearing an emerald-green cloak! The nerve of
him! But then it struck Mr Dursley that this was probably some
silly stunt – these people were obviously collecting for something
... yes, that would be it. The traffic moved on, and a few minutes
later, Mr Dursley arrived in the Grunnings car park, his mind
back on drills.
Mr Dursley always sat with his back to the window in his office
on the ninth floor. If he hadn’t, he might have found it harder to
concentrate on drills that morning. He didn’t see the owls
 THE BOY WHO LIVED
swooping past in broad daylight, though people down in the
street did; they pointed and gazed open-mouthed as owl after owl
sped overhead. Most of them had never seen an owl even at nighttime. Mr Dursley, however, had a perfectly normal, owl-free morning. He yelled at five different people. He made several important
telephone calls and shouted a bit more. He was in a very good
mood until lunch-time, when he thought he’d stretch his legs
and walk across the road to buy himself a bun from the baker’s
opposite.
He’d forgotten all about the people in cloaks until he passed a
group of them next to the baker’s. He eyed them angrily as he
passed. He didn’t know why, but they made him uneasy. This lot
were whispering excitedly, too, and he couldn’t see a single
collecting tin. It was on his way back past them, clutching a large
doughnut in a bag, that he caught a few words of what they were
saying.
‘The Potters, that’s right, that’s what I heard –’
‘– yes, their son, Harry –’
Mr Dursley stopped dead. Fear flooded him. He looked back at
the whisperers as if he wanted to say something to them, but
thought better of it.
He dashed back across the road, hurried up to his office,
snapped at his secretary not to disturb him, seized his telephone
and had almost finished dialling his home number when he
changed his mind. He put the receiver back down and stroked his
moustache, thinking ... no, he was being stupid. Potter wasn’t
such an unusual name. He was sure there were lots of people
called Potter who had a son called Harry. Come to think of it, he
wasn’t even sure his nephew was called Harry. He’d never even
seen the boy. It might have been Harvey. Or Harold. There was no
point in worrying Mrs Dursley, she always got so upset at any
mention of her sister. He didn’t blame her – if he’d had a sister like
that ... but all the same, those people in cloaks ...
He found it a lot harder to concentrate on drills that afternoon,
and when he left the building at five o’clock, he was still so
worried that he walked straight into someone just outside the door.
‘Sorry,’ he grunted, as the tiny old man stumbled and almost
fell. It was a few seconds before Mr Dursley realised that the man
was wearing a violet cloak. He didn’t seem at all upset at being
almost knocked to the ground. On the contrary, his face split into
 HARRY POTTER
a wide smile and he said in a squeaky voice that made passers-by
stare: ‘Don’t be sorry, my dear sir, for nothing could upset me
today! Rejoice, for You-Know-Who has gone at last! Even
Muggles like yourself should be celebrating, this happy happy
day!’
And the old man hugged Mr Dursley around the middle and
walked off.
Mr Dursley stood rooted to the spot. He had been hugged by a
complete stranger. He also thought he had been called a Muggle,
whatever that was. He was rattled. He hurried to his car and set
off home, hoping he was imagining things, which he had never
hoped before, because he didn’t approve of imagination.
As he pulled into the driveway of number four, the first thing he
saw – and it didn’t improve his mood – was the tabby cat he’d
spotted that morning. It was now sitting on his garden wall. He was
sure it was the same one; it had the same markings around its eyes.
‘Shoo!’ said Mr Dursley loudly.
The cat didn’t move. It just gave him a stern look. Was this normal cat behaviour, Mr Dursley wondered. Trying to pull himself
together, he let himself into the house. He was still determined
not to mention anything to his wife.
Mrs Dursley had had a nice, normal day. She told him over dinner all about Mrs Next Door’s problems with her daughter and
how Dudley had learnt a new word (‘Shan’t!’). Mr Dursley tried to
act normally. When Dudley had been put to bed, he went into the
living-room in time to catch the last report on the evening news:
And finally, bird-watchers everywhere have reported that the
nation’s owls have been behaving very unusually today. Although
owls normally hunt at night and are hardly ever seen in daylight,
there have been hundreds of sightings of these birds flying in
every direction since sunrise. Experts are unable to explain why
the owls have suddenly changed their sleeping pattern.’ The news
reader allowed himself a grin. ‘Most mysterious. And now, over to
Jim McGuffin with the weather. Going to be any more showers of
owls tonight, Jim?’
‘Well, Ted,’ said the weatherman, ‘I don’t know about that, but
it’s not only the owls that have been acting oddly today. Viewers as
far apart as Kent, Yorkshire and Dundee have been phoning in
to tell me that instead of the rain I promised yesterday, they’ve
had a downpour of shooting stars! Perhaps people have been
 THE BOY WHO LIVED
celebrating Bonfire Night early – it’s not until next week, folks!
But I can promise a wet night tonight.’
Mr Dursley sat frozen in his armchair. Shooting stars all over
Britain? Owls flying by daylight? Mysterious people in cloaks all
over the place? And a whisper, a whisper about the Potters ...
Mrs Dursley came into the living-room carrying two cups of
tea. It was no good. He’d have to say something to her. He cleared
his throat nervously. ‘Er – Petunia, dear – you haven’t heard from
your sister lately, have you?’
As he had expected, Mrs Dursley looked shocked and angry.
After all, they normally pretended she didn’t have a sister.
‘No,’ she said sharply. ‘Why?’
‘Funny stuff on the news,’ Mr Dursley mumbled. ‘Owls ...
shooting stars ... and there were a lot of funny-looking people in
town today ...’
‘So?’ snapped Mrs Dursley.
‘Well, I just thought ... maybe ... it was something to do with ...
you know ... her lot.’
Mrs Dursley sipped her tea through pursed lips. Mr Dursley
wondered whether he dared tell her he’d heard the name ‘Potter’.
He decided he didn’t dare. Instead he said, as casually as he could,
‘Their son – he’d be about Dudley’s age now, wouldn’t he?’
‘I suppose so,’ said Mrs Dursley stiffly.
‘What’s his name again? Howard, isn’t it?’
‘Harry. Nasty, common name, if you ask me.’
‘Oh, yes,’ said Mr Dursley, his heart sinking horribly. ‘Yes, I
quite agree.’
He didn’t say another word on the subject as they went upstairs
to bed. While Mrs Dursley was in the bathroom, Mr Dursley crept
to the bedroom window and peered down into the front garden.
The cat was still there. It was staring down Privet Drive as though
it was waiting for something.
Was he imagining things? Could all this have anything to do
with the Potters? If it did ... if it got out that they were related to a
pair of – well, he didn’t think he could bear it.
The Dursleys got into bed. Mrs Dursley fell asleep quickly but
Mr Dursley lay awake, turning it all over in his mind. His last,
comforting thought before he fell asleep was that even if the
Potters were involved, there was no reason for them to come near
him and Mrs Dursley. The Potters knew very well what he and
 HARRY POTTER
Petunia thought about them and their kind ... He couldn’t see how
he and Petunia could get mixed up in anything that might be
going on. He yawned and turned over. It couldn’t affect them ...
How very wrong he was.
Mr Dursley might have been drifting into an uneasy sleep, but
the cat on the wall outside was showing no sign of sleepiness. It
was sitting as still as a statue, its eyes fixed unblinkingly on the
far corner of Privet Drive. It didn’t so much as quiver when a car
door slammed in the next street, nor when two owls swooped
overhead. In fact, it was nearly midnight before the cat moved at all.
A man appeared on the corner the cat had been watching,
appeared so suddenly and silently you’d have thought he’d just
popped out of the ground. The cat’s tail twitched and its eyes
narrowed.
Nothing like this man had ever been seen in Privet Drive. He
was tall, thin and very old, judging by the silver of his hair and
beard, which were both long enough to tuck into his belt. He was
wearing long robes, a purple cloak which swept the ground and
high-heeled, buckled boots. His blue eyes were light, bright and
sparkling behind half-moon spectacles and his nose was very long
and crooked, as though it had been broken at least twice. This
man’s name was Albus Dumbledore.
Albus Dumbledore didn’t seem to realise that he had just
arrived in a street where everything from his name to his boots
was unwelcome. He was busy rummaging in his cloak, looking for
something. But he did seem to realise he was being watched,
because he looked up suddenly at the cat, which was still staring
at him from the other end of the street. For some reason, the sight
of the cat seemed to amuse him. He chuckled and muttered, ‘I
should have known.’
He had found what he was looking for in his inside pocket. It
seemed to be a silver cigarette lighter. He flicked it open, held it
up in the air and clicked it. The nearest street lamp went out with
a little pop. He clicked it again – the next lamp flickered into
darkness. Twelve times he clicked the Put-Outer, until the only
lights left in the whole street were two tiny pinpricks in the distance, which were the eyes of the cat watching him. If anyone
looked out of their window now, even beady-eyed Mrs Dursley,
they wouldn’t be able to see anything that was happening down
on the pavement. Dumbledore slipped the Put-Outer back inside
 THE BOY WHO LIVED
his cloak and set off down the street towards number four, where
he sat down on the wall next to the cat. He didn’t look at it, but
after a moment he spoke to it.
‘Fancy seeing you here, Professor McGonagall.’
He turned to smile at the tabby, but it had gone. Instead he was
smiling at a rather severe-looking woman who was wearing square
glasses exactly the shape of the markings the cat had had around
its eyes. She, too, was wearing a cloak, an emerald one. Her black
hair was drawn into a tight bun. She looked distinctly ruffled.
‘How did you know it was me?’ she asked.
‘My dear Professor, I’ve never seen a cat sit so stiffly.’
‘You’d be stiff if you’d been sitting on a brick wall all day,’ said
Professor McGonagall.
‘All day? When you could have been celebrating? I must have
passed a dozen feasts and parties on my way here.’
Professor McGonagall sniffed angrily.
‘Oh yes, everyone’s celebrating, all right,’ she said impatiently.
‘You’d think they’d be a bit more careful, but no – even the
Muggles have noticed something’s going on. It was on their news.’
She jerked her head back at the Dursleys’ dark living-room
window. ‘I heard it. Flocks of owls ... shooting stars ... Well,
they’re not completely stupid. They were bound to notice
something. Shooting stars down in Kent – I’ll bet that was Dedalus
Diggle. He never had much sense.’
‘You can’t blame them,’ said Dumbledore gently. ‘We’ve had
precious little to celebrate for eleven years.’
‘I know that,’ said Professor McGonagall irritably. ‘But that’s no
reason to lose our heads. People are being downright careless, out
on the streets in broad daylight, not even dressed in Muggle
clothes, swapping rumours.’
She threw a sharp, sideways glance at Dumbledore here, as
though hoping he was going to tell her something, but he didn’t,
so she went on: ‘A fine thing it would be if, on the very day YouKnow-Who seems to have disappeared at last, the Muggles found
out about us all. I suppose he really has gone, Dumbledore?’
‘It certainly seems so,’ said Dumbledore. ‘We have much to be
thankful for. Would you care for a sherbet lemon?’
‘A what?’
‘A sherbet lemon. They’re a kind of Muggle sweet I’m rather
fond of.’
 HARRY POTTER
‘No, thank you,’ said Professor McGonagall coldly, as though
she didn’t think this was the moment for sherbet lemons. ‘As I say,
even if You-Know-Who has gone –’
‘My dear Professor, surely a sensible person like yourself can
call him by his name? All this “You-Know-Who” nonsense – for
eleven years I have been trying to persuade people to call him by
his proper name: Voldemort.’ Professor McGonagall flinched, but
Dumbledore, who was unsticking two sherbet lemons, seemed
not to notice. ‘It all gets so confusing if we keep saying “YouKnow-Who”.’ I have never seen any reason to be frightened of
saying Voldemort’s name.’
‘I know you haven’t,’ said Professor McGonagall, sounding halfexasperated, half-admiring. ‘But you’re different. Everyone knows
you’re the only one You-Know – oh, all right, Voldemort – was
frightened of.’
‘You flatter me,’ said Dumbledore calmly. ‘Voldemort had
powers I will never have.’
‘Only because you’re too – well – noble to use them.’
‘It’s lucky it’s dark. I haven’t blushed so much since Madam
Pomfrey told me she liked my new earmuffs.’
Professor McGonagall shot a sharp look at Dumbledore and
said, ‘The owls are nothing to the rumours that are flying around.
You know what everyone’s saying? About why he’s disappeared?
About what finally stopped him?’
It seemed that Professor McGonagall had reached the point she
was most anxious to discuss, the real reason she had been waiting
on a cold hard wall all day, for neither as a cat nor as a woman
had she fixed Dumbledore with such a piercing stare as she did
now. It was plain that whatever ‘everyone’ was saying, she was not
going to believe it until Dumbledore told her it was true.
Dumbledore, however, was choosing another sherbet lemon and
did not answer.
‘What they’re saying,’ she pressed on, ‘is that last night Voldemort
turned up in Godric’s Hollow. He went to find the Potters. The
rumour is that Lily and James Potter are – are – that they’re –
dead.’
Dumbledore bowed his head. Professor McGonagall gasped.
‘Lily and James ... I can’t believe it ... I didn’t want to believe it
... Oh, Albus ...’
Dumbledore reached out and patted her on the shoulder. ‘I
 THE BOY WHO LIVED
know ... I know ...’ he said heavily.
Professor McGonagall’s voice trembled as she went on. ‘That’s
not all. They’re saying he tried to kill the Potters’ son, Harry. But –
he couldn’t. He couldn’t kill that little boy. No one knows why, or
how, but they’re saying that when he couldn’t kill Harry Potter,
Voldemort’s power somehow broke – and that’s why he’s gone.’
Dumbledore nodded glumly.
‘It’s – it’s true?’ faltered Professor McGonagall. ‘After all he’s
done ... all the people he’s killed ... he couldn’t kill a little boy? It’s
just astounding ... of all the things to stop him ... but how in the
name of heaven did Harry survive?’
‘We can only guess,’ said Dumbledore. ‘We may never know.’
Professor McGonagall pulled out a lace handkerchief and
dabbed at her eyes beneath her spectacles. Dumbledore gave a
great sniff as he took a golden watch from his pocket and examined
it. It was a very odd watch. It had twelve hands but no numbers;
instead, little planets were moving around the edge. It must have
made sense to Dumbledore, though, because he put it back in his
pocket and said, ‘Hagrid’s late. I suppose it was he who told you
I’d be here, by the way?’
‘Yes,’ said Professor McGonagall. ‘And I don’t suppose you’re
going to tell me why you’re here, of all places?’
‘I’ve come to bring Harry to his aunt and uncle. They’re the
only family he has left now.’
‘You don’t mean – you can’t mean the people who live here?’
cried Professor McGonagall, jumping to her feet and pointing at
number four. ‘Dumbledore – you can’t. I’ve been watching them
all day. You couldn’t find two people who are less like us. And
they’ve got this son – I saw him kicking his mother all the way up
the street, screaming for sweets. Harry Potter come and live here!’
‘It’s the best place for him,’ said Dumbledore firmly. ‘His aunt
and uncle will be able to explain everything to him when he’s
older. I’ve written them a letter.’
‘A letter?’ repeated Professor McGonagall faintly, sitting back
down on the wall. ‘Really, Dumbledore, you think you can explain
all this in a letter? These people will never understand him! He’ll
be famous – a legend – I wouldn’t be surprised if today was
known as Harry Potter Day in future – there will be books written
about Harry – every child in our world will know his name!’
‘Exactly,’ said Dumbledore, looking very seriously over the top
 HARRY POTTER
of his half-moon glasses. ‘It would be enough to turn any boy’s
head. Famous before he can walk and talk! Famous for something
he won’t even remember! Can’t you see how much better off he’ll
be, growing up away from all that until he’s ready to take it?’
Professor McGonagall opened her mouth, changed her mind,
swallowed and then said, ‘Yes – yes, you’re right, of course. But
how is the boy getting here, Dumbledore?’ She eyed his cloak
suddenly as though she thought he might be hiding Harry
underneath it.
‘Hagrid’s bringing him.’
‘You think it – wise – to trust Hagrid with something as important as this?’
‘I would trust Hagrid with my life,’ said Dumbledore.
‘I’m not saying his heart isn’t in the right place,’ said Professor
McGonagall grudgingly, ‘but you can’t pretend he’s not careless.
He does tend to – what was that?’
A low rumbling sound had broken the silence around them. It
grew steadily louder as they looked up and down the street for
some sign of a headlight; it swelled to a roar as they both looked
up at the sky – and a huge motorbike fell out of the air and landed
on the road in front of them.
If the motorbike was huge, it was nothing to the man sitting
astride it. He was almost twice as tall as a normal man and at least
five times as wide. He looked simply too big to be allowed, and so
wild – long tangles of bushy black hair and beard hid most of his
face, he had hands the size of dustbin lids and his feet in their
leather boots were like baby dolphins. In his vast, muscular arms
he was holding a bundle of blankets.
‘Hagrid,’ said Dumbledore, sounding relieved. ‘At last. And
where did you get that motorbike?’
‘Borrowed it, Professor Dumbledore, sir,’ said the giant, climbing
carefully off the motorbike as he spoke. ‘Young Sirius Black lent it
me. I’ve got him, sir.’
‘No problems, were there?’
‘No, sir – house was almost destroyed but I got him out all
right before the Muggles started swarmin’ around. He fell asleep
as we was flyin’ over Bristol.’
Dumbledore and Professor McGonagall bent forward over the
bundle of blankets. Inside, just visible, was a baby boy, fast asleep.
Under a tuft of jet-black hair over his forehead they could see a
 THE BOY WHO LIVED
curiously shaped cut, like a bolt of lightning.
‘Is that where –?’ whispered Professor McGonagall.
‘Yes,’ said Dumbledore. ‘He’ll have that scar for ever.’
‘Couldn’t you do something about it, Dumbledore?’
‘Even if I could, I wouldn’t. Scars can come in useful. I have
one myself above my left knee which is a perfect map of the
London Underground. Well – give him here, Hagrid – we’d better
get this over with.’
Dumbledore took Harry in his arms and turned towards the
Dursleys’ house.
‘Could I – could I say goodbye to him, sir?’ asked Hagrid.
He bent his great, shaggy head over Harry and gave him what
must have been a very scratchy, whiskery kiss. Then, suddenly,
Hagrid let out a howl like a wounded dog.
‘Shhh!’ hissed Professor McGonagall. ‘You’ll wake the Muggles!’
‘S-s-sorry,’ sobbed Hagrid, taking out a large spotted handkerchief and burying his face in it. ‘But I c-c-can’t stand it – Lily an’
James dead – an’ poor little Harry off ter live with Muggles –’
‘Yes, yes, it’s all very sad, but get a grip on yourself, Hagrid, or
we’ll be found,’ Professor McGonagall whispered, patting Hagrid
gingerly on the arm as Dumbledore stepped over the low garden
wall and walked to the front door. He laid Harry gently on the
doorstep, took a letter out of his cloak, tucked it inside Harry’s
blankets and then came back to the other two. For a full minute
the three of them stood and looked at the little bundle; Hagrid’s
shoulders shook, Professor McGonagall blinked furiously and the
twinkling light that usually shone from Dumbledore’s eyes seemed
to have gone out.
‘Well,’ said Dumbledore finally, ‘that’s that. We’ve no business
staying here. We may as well go and join the celebrations.’
‘Yeah,’ said Hagrid in a very muffled voice. ‘I’d best get
this bike away. G’night, Professor McGonagall – Professor
Dumbledore, sir.’
Wiping his streaming eyes on his jacket sleeve, Hagrid swung
himself on to the motorbike and kicked the engine into life; with
a roar it rose into the air and off into the night.
‘I shall see you soon, I expect, Professor McGonagall,’ said
Dumbledore, nodding to her. Professor McGonagall blew her nose
in reply.
Dumbledore turned and walked back down the street. On the
 HARRY POTTER
corner he stopped and took out the silver Put-Outer. He clicked it
once and twelve balls of light sped back to their street lamps so
that Privet Drive glowed suddenly orange and he could make out
a tabby cat slinking around the corner at the other end of the
street. He could just see the bundle of blankets on the step of
number four.
‘Good luck, Harry,’ he murmured. He turned on his heel and
with a swish of his cloak he was gone.
A breeze ruffled the neat hedges of Privet Drive, which lay
silent and tidy under the inky sky, the very last place you would
expect astonishing things to happen. Harry Potter rolled over
inside his blankets without waking up. One small hand closed on
the letter beside him and he slept on, not knowing he was special,
not knowing he was famous, not knowing he would be woken in
a few hours’ time by Mrs Dursley’s scream as she opened the front
door to put out the milk bottles, nor that he would spend the next
few weeks being prodded and pinched by his cousin Dudley ... He
couldn’t know that at this very moment, people meeting in secret
all over the country were holding up their glasses and saying in
hushed voices: ‘To Harry Potter – the boy who lived!’

— CHAPTER TWO —
The Vanishing Glass
Nearly ten years had passed since the Dursleys had woken up to
find their nephew on the front step, but Privet Drive had hardly
changed at all. The sun rose on the same tidy front gardens and lit
up the brass number four on the Dursleys’ front door; it crept into
their living-room, which was almost exactly the same as it had
been on the night when Mr Dursley had seen that fateful news
report about the owls. Only the photographs on the mantelpiece
really showed how much time had passed. Ten years ago, there
had been lots of pictures of what looked like a large pink beach
ball wearing different-coloured bobble hats – but Dudley Dursley
was no longer a baby, and now the photographs showed a large,
blond boy riding his first bicycle, on a roundabout at the fair,
playing a computer game with his father, being hugged and kissed
by his mother. The room held no sign at all that another boy lived
in the house, too.
Yet Harry Potter was still there, asleep at the moment, but not
for long. His Aunt Petunia was awake and it was her shrill voice
which made the first noise of the day.
‘Up! Get up! Now!’
Harry woke with a start. His aunt rapped on the door again.
‘Up!’ she screeched. Harry heard her walking towards the
kitchen and then the sound of the frying pan being put on the
cooker. He rolled on to his back and tried to remember the dream
he had been having. It had been a good one. There had been a
flying motorbike in it. He had a funny feeling he’d had the same
dream before.
His aunt was back outside the door.
‘Are you up yet?’ she demanded.
‘Nearly,’ said Harry.
‘Well, get a move on, I want you to look after the bacon. And
 HARRY POTTER
don’t you dare let it burn, I want everything perfect on Duddy’s
birthday.’
Harry groaned.
‘What did you say?’ his aunt snapped through the door.
‘Nothing, nothing ...’
Dudley’s birthday – how could he have forgotten? Harry got
slowly out of bed and started looking for socks. He found a pair
under his bed and, after pulling a spider off one of them, put them
on. Harry was used to spiders, because the cupboard under the
stairs was full of them, and that was where he slept.
When he was dressed he went down the hall into the kitchen.
The table was almost hidden beneath all Dudley’s birthday presents. It looked as though Dudley had got the new computer he
wanted, not to mention the second television and the racing bike.
Exactly why Dudley wanted a racing bike was a mystery to Harry,
as Dudley was very fat and hated exercise – unless of course it
involved punching somebody. Dudley’s favourite punch-bag was
Harry, but he couldn’t often catch him. Harry didn’t look it, but he
was very fast.
Perhaps it had something to do with living in a dark cupboard,
but Harry had always been small and skinny for his age. He
looked even smaller and skinnier than he really was because all he
had to wear were old clothes of Dudley’s and Dudley was about
four times bigger than he was. Harry had a thin face, knobbly
knees, black hair and bright-green eyes. He wore round glasses
held together with a lot of Sellotape because of all the times
Dudley had punched him on the nose. The only thing Harry liked
about his own appearance was a very thin scar on his forehead
which was shaped like a bolt of lightning. He had had it as long as
he could remember and the first question he could ever remember
asking his Aunt Petunia was how he had got it.
‘In the car crash when your parents died,’ she had said. ‘And
don’t ask questions.’
Don’t ask questions – that was the first rule for a quiet life with
the Dursleys.
Uncle Vernon entered the kitchen as Harry was turning over
the bacon.
‘Comb your hair!’ he barked, by way of a morning greeting.
About once a week, Uncle Vernon looked over the top of his
newspaper and shouted that Harry needed a haircut. Harry must
 THE VANISHING GLASS
have had more haircuts than the rest of the boys in his class put
together, but it made no difference, his hair simply grew that way
– all over the place.
Harry was frying eggs by the time Dudley arrived in the kitchen
with his mother. Dudley looked a lot like Uncle Vernon. He had a
large, pink face, not much neck, small, watery blue eyes and
thick, blond hair that lay smoothly on his thick, fat head. Aunt
Petunia often said that Dudley looked like a baby angel – Harry
often said that Dudley looked like a pig in a wig.
Harry put the plates of egg and bacon on the table, which was
difficult as there wasn’t much room. Dudley, meanwhile, was
counting his presents. His face fell.
‘Thirty-six,’ he said, looking up at his mother and father. ‘That’s
two less than last year.’
‘Darling, you haven’t counted Auntie Marge’s present, see, it’s
here under this big one from Mummy and Daddy.’
‘All right, thirty-seven then,’ said Dudley, going red in the face.
Harry, who could see a huge Dudley tantrum coming on, began
wolfing down his bacon as fast as possible in case Dudley turned
the table over.
Aunt Petunia obviously scented danger too, because she said
quickly, ‘And we’ll buy you another two presents while we’re out
today. How’s that, popkin? Two more presents. Is that all right?’
Dudley thought for a moment. It looked like hard work. Finally
he said slowly, ‘So I’ll have thirty ... thirty ...”
‘Thirty-nine, sweetums,’ said Aunt Petunia.
‘Oh.’ Dudley sat down heavily and grabbed the nearest parcel.
All right then.’
Uncle Vernon chuckled.
‘Little tyke wants his money’s worth, just like his father. Atta
boy, Dudley!’ He ruffled Dudley’s hair.
At that moment the telephone rang and Aunt Petunia went to
answer it while Harry and Uncle Vernon watched Dudley unwrap
the racing bike, a cine-camera, a remote-control aeroplane, sixteen
new computer games and a video recorder. He was ripping the
paper off a gold wristwatch when Aunt Petunia came back from
the telephone, looking both angry and worried.
‘Bad news, Vernon,’ she said. ‘Mrs Figg’s broken her leg. She
can’t take him.’ She jerked her head in Harry’s direction.
Dudley’s mouth fell open in horror but Harry’s heart gave a
 HARRY POTTER
leap. Every year on Dudley’s birthday his parents took him and a
friend out for the day, to adventure parks, hamburger bars or the
cinema. Every year, Harry was left behind with Mrs Figg, a mad
old lady who lived two streets away. Harry hated it there. The
whole house smelled of cabbage and Mrs Figg made him look at
photographs of all the cats she’d ever owned.
‘Now what?’ said Aunt Petunia, looking furiously at Harry as
though he’d planned this. Harry knew he ought to feel sorry that
Mrs Figg had broken her leg, but it wasn’t easy when he reminded
himself it would be a whole year before he had to look at Tibbies,
Snowy, Mr Paws and Tufty again.
‘We could phone Marge,’ Uncle Vernon suggested.
‘Don’t be silly, Vernon, she hates the boy.’
The Dursleys often spoke about Harry like this, as though he
wasn’t there – or rather, as though he was something very nasty
that couldn’t understand them, like a slug.
‘What about what’s-her-name, your friend – Yvonne?’
‘On holiday in Majorca,’ snapped Aunt Petunia.
‘You could just leave me here,’ Harry put in hopefully (he’d be
able to watch what he wanted on television for a change and
maybe even have a go on Dudley’s computer).
Aunt Petunia looked as though she’d just swallowed a lemon.
‘And come back and find the house in ruins?’ she snarled.
‘I won’t blow up the house,’ said Harry, but they weren’t listening.
‘I suppose we could take him to the zoo,’ said Aunt Petunia
slowly, ‘... and leave him in the car ...’
‘That car’s new, he’s not sitting in it alone ...’
Dudley began to cry loudly. In fact, he wasn’t really crying, it
had been years since he’d really cried, but he knew that if he
screwed up his face and wailed, his mother would give him
anything he wanted.
‘Dinky Duddydums, don’t cry, Mummy won’t let him spoil your
special day!’ she cried, flinging her arms around him.
‘I ... don’t ... want ... him ... t-t-to come!’ Dudley yelled between
huge pretend sobs. ‘He always sp-spoils everything!’ He shot
Harry a nasty grin through the gap in his mother’s arms.
Just then, the doorbell rang – ‘Oh, Good Lord, they’re here!’
said Aunt Petunia frantically – and a moment later, Dudley’s best
friend, Piers Polkiss, walked in with his mother. Piers was a
scrawny boy with a face like a rat. He was usually the one who
 THE VANISHING GLASS
held people’s arms behind their backs while Dudley hit them.
Dudley stopped pretending to cry at once.
Half an hour later, Harry, who couldn’t believe his luck, was
sitting in the back of the Dursleys’ car with Piers and Dudley, on
the way to the zoo for the first time in his life. His aunt and uncle
hadn’t been able to think of anything else to do with him, but
before they’d left, Uncle Vernon had taken Harry aside.
‘I’m warning you,’ he had said, putting his large purple face
right up close to Harry’s, ‘I’m warning you now, boy – any funny
business, anything at all – and you’ll be in that cupboard from
now until Christmas.’
‘I’m not going to do anything,’ said Harry, ‘honestly ...’
But Uncle Vernon didn’t believe him. No one ever did.
The problem was, strange things often happened around Harry
and it was just no good telling the Dursleys he didn’t make them
happen.
Once, Aunt Petunia, tired of Harry coming back from the barber’s looking as though he hadn’t been at all, had taken a pair of
kitchen scissors and cut his hair so short he was almost bald
except for his fringe, which she left ‘to hide that horrible scar’.
Dudley had laughed himself silly at Harry, who spent a sleepless
night imagining school the next day, where he was already
laughed at for his baggy clothes and Sellotaped glasses. Next
morning, however, he had got up to find his hair exactly as it had
been before Aunt Petunia had sheared it off. He had been given a
week in his cupboard for this, even though he had tried to explain
that he couldn’t explain how it had grown back so quickly.
Another time, Aunt Petunia had been trying to force him into a
revolting old jumper of Dudley’s (brown with orange bobbles).
The harder she tried to pull it over his head, the smaller it seemed
to become, until finally it might have fitted a glove puppet, but
certainly wouldn’t fit Harry. Aunt Petunia had decided it must
have shrunk in the wash and, to his great relief, Harry wasn’t
punished.
On the other hand, he’d got into terrible trouble for being
found on the roof of the school kitchens. Dudley’s gang had been
chasing him as usual when, as much to Harry’s surprise as anyone
else’s, there he was sitting on the chimney. The Dursleys had
received a very angry letter from Harry’s headmistress telling them
Harry had been climbing school buildings. But all he’d tried to do
 HARRY POTTER
(as he shouted at Uncle Vernon through the locked door of his
cupboard) was jump behind the big bins outside the kitchen
doors. Harry supposed that the wind must have caught him in
mid-jump.
But today, nothing was going to go wrong. It was even worth
being with Dudley and Piers to be spending the day somewhere
that wasn’t school, his cupboard or Mrs Figg’s cabbage-smelling
living-room.
While he drove, Uncle Vernon complained to Aunt Petunia.
He liked to complain about things: people at work, Harry, the
council, Harry, the bank and Harry were just a few of his favourite
subjects. This morning, it was motorbikes.
‘... roaring along like maniacs, the young hoodlums,’ he said,
as a motorbike overtook them.
‘I had a dream about a motorbike,’ said Harry, remembering
suddenly. ‘It was flying.’
Uncle Vernon nearly crashed into the car in front. He turned
right around in his seat and yelled at Harry, his face like a gigantic
beetroot with a moustache, ‘MOTORBIKES DON’T FLY!’
Dudley and Piers sniggered.
‘I know they don’t,’ said Harry. ‘It was only a dream.’
But he wished he hadn’t said anything. If there was one thing
the Dursleys hated even more than his asking questions, it was his
talking about anything acting in a way it shouldn’t, no matter if it
was in a dream or even a cartoon – they seemed to think he might
get dangerous ideas.
It was a very sunny Saturday and the zoo was crowded with
families. The Dursleys bought Dudley and Piers large chocolate
ice-creams at the entrance and then, because the smiling lady in
the van had asked Harry what he wanted before they could hurry
him away, they bought him a cheap lemon ice lolly. It wasn’t bad
either, Harry thought, licking it as they watched a gorilla scratching its head and looking remarkably like Dudley, except that it
wasn’t blond.
Harry had the best morning he’d had in a long time. He was
careful to walk a little way apart from the Dursleys so that Dudley
and Piers, who were starting to get bored with the animals by
lunch-time, wouldn’t fall back on their favourite hobby of hitting
him. They ate in the zoo restaurant and when Dudley had a
tantrum because his knickerbocker glory wasn’t big enough,
 THE VANISHING GLASS
Uncle Vernon bought him another one and Harry was allowed to
finish the first.
Harry felt, afterwards, that he should have known it was all too
good to last.
After lunch they went to the reptile house. It was cool and dark
in here, with lit windows all along the walls. Behind the glass, all
sorts of lizards and snakes were crawling and slithering over bits
of wood and stone. Dudley and Piers wanted to see huge, poisonous cobras and thick, man-crushing pythons. Dudley quickly
found the largest snake in the place. It could have wrapped its
body twice around Uncle Vernon’s car and crushed it into a dustbin – but at the moment it didn’t look in the mood. In fact, it was
fast asleep.
Dudley stood with his nose pressed against the glass, staring at
the glistening brown coils.
‘Make it move,’ he whined at his father. Uncle Vernon tapped
on the glass, but the snake didn’t budge.
‘Do it again,’ Dudley ordered. Uncle Vernon rapped the glass
smartly with his knuckles, but the snake just snoozed on.
‘This is boring,’ Dudley moaned. He shuffled away.
Harry moved in front of the tank and looked intently at the
snake. He wouldn’t have been surprised if it had died of boredom
itself – no company except stupid people drumming their fingers
on the glass trying to disturb it all day long. It was worse than
having a cupboard as a bedroom, where the only visitor was Aunt
Petunia hammering on the door to wake you up – at least he got to
visit the rest of the house.
The snake suddenly opened its beady eyes. Slowly, very slowly,
it raised its head until its eyes were on a level with Harry’s.
It winked.
Harry stared. Then he looked quickly around to see if anyone
was watching. They weren’t. He looked back at the snake and
winked, too.
The snake jerked its head towards Uncle Vernon and Dudley,
then raised its eyes to the ceiling. It gave Harry a look that said
quite plainly: ‘I get that all the time.’
‘I know,’ Harry murmured through the glass, though he wasn’t
sure the snake could hear him. ‘It must be really annoying.’
The snake nodded vigorously.
‘Where do you come from, anyway?’ Harry asked.
 HARRY POTTER
The snake jabbed its tail at a little sign next to the glass. Harry
peered at it.
Boa Constrictor, Brazil.
‘Was it nice there?’
The boa constrictor jabbed its tail at the sign again and Harry
read on: This specimen was bred in the zoo. ‘Oh, I see – so you’ve
never been to Brazil?’
As the snake shook its head, a deafening shout behind Harry
made both of them jump. ‘DUDLEY! MR DURSLEY! COME AND
LOOK AT THIS SNAKE! YOU WON’T BELIEVE WHAT IT’S
DOING!’
Dudley came waddling towards them as fast as he could.
‘Out of the way, you,’ he said, punching Harry in the ribs.
Caught by surprise, Harry fell hard on the concrete floor. What
came next happened so fast no one saw how it happened – one
second, Piers and Dudley were leaning right up close to the glass,
the next, they had leapt back with howls of horror.
Harry sat up and gasped; the glass front of the boa constrictor’s
tank had vanished. The great snake was uncoiling itself rapidly,
slithering out on to the floor – people throughout the reptile
house screamed and started running for the exits.
As the snake slid swiftly past him, Harry could have sworn a
low, hissing voice said, ‘Brazil, here I come ... Thanksss, amigo.’
The keeper of the reptile house was in shock.
‘But the glass,’ he kept saying, ‘where did the glass go?’
The zoo director himself made Aunt Petunia a cup of strong
sweet tea while he apologised over and over again. Piers and
Dudley could only gibber. As far as Harry had seen, the snake
hadn’t done anything except snap playfully at their heels as it
passed, but by the time they were all back in Uncle Vernon’s car,
Dudley was telling them how it had nearly bitten off his leg, while
Piers was swearing it had tried to squeeze him to death. But worst
of all, for Harry at least, was Piers calming down enough to say,
‘Harry was talking to it, weren’t you, Harry?’
Uncle Vernon waited until Piers was safely out of the house
before starting on Harry. He was so angry he could hardly speak.
He managed to say, ‘Go – cupboard – stay – no meals,’ before he
collapsed into a chair and Aunt Petunia had to run and get him a
large brandy.
*
 THE VANISHING GLASS
Harry lay in his dark cupboard much later, wishing he had a watch.
He didn’t know what time it was and he couldn’t be sure the
Dursleys were asleep yet. Until they were, he couldn’t risk sneaking
to the kitchen for some food.
He’d lived with the Dursleys almost ten years, ten miserable
years, as long as he could remember, ever since he’d been a baby
and his parents had died in that car crash. He couldn’t remember
being in the car when his parents had died. Sometimes, when he
strained his memory during long hours in his cupboard, he came
up with a strange vision: a blinding flash of green light and a
burning pain on his forehead. This, he supposed, was the crash,
though he couldn’t imagine where all the green light came from.
He couldn’t remember his parents at all. His aunt and uncle never
spoke about them, and of course he was forbidden to ask
questions. There were no photographs of them in the house.
When he had been younger, Harry had dreamed and dreamed
of some unknown relation coming to take him away, but it had
never happened; the Dursleys were his only family. Yet sometimes
he thought (or maybe hoped) that strangers in the street seemed
to know him. Very strange strangers they were, too. A tiny man in
a violet top hat had bowed to him once while out shopping with
Aunt Petunia and Dudley. After asking Harry furiously if he knew
the man, Aunt Petunia had rushed them out of the shop without
buying anything. A wild-looking old woman dressed all in green
had waved merrily at him once on a bus. A bald man in a very
long purple coat had actually shaken his hand in the street the
other day and then walked away without a word. The weirdest
thing about all these people was the way they seemed to vanish
the second Harry tried to get a closer look.
At school, Harry had no one. Everybody knew that Dudley’s
gang hated that odd Harry Potter in his baggy old clothes and
broken glasses, and nobody liked to disagree with Dudley’s gang.

— CHAPTER THREE —
The Letters from No One
The escape of the Brazilian boa constrictor earned Harry his
longest-ever punishment. By the time he was allowed out of his
cupboard again, the summer holidays had started and Dudley had
already broken his new cine-camera, crashed his remote-control
aeroplane and, first time on his racing bike, knocked down old
Mrs Figg as she crossed Privet Drive on her crutches.
Harry was glad school was over, but there was no escaping
Dudley’s gang, who visited the house every single day. Piers,
Dennis, Malcolm and Gordon were all big and stupid, but as
Dudley was the biggest and stupidest of the lot, he was the leader.
The rest of them were all quite happy to join in Dudley’s favourite
sport: Harry-hunting.
This was why Harry spent as much time as possible out of the
house, wandering around and thinking about the end of the holidays, where he could see a tiny ray of hope. When September
came he would be going off to secondary school and, for the first
time in his life, he wouldn’t be with Dudley. Dudley had a place at
Uncle Vernon’s old school, Smeltings. Piers Polkiss was going
there, too. Harry, on the other hand, was going to Stonewall High,
the local comprehensive. Dudley thought this was very funny.
‘They stuff people’s heads down the toilet first day at
Stonewall,’ he told Harry. ‘Want to come upstairs and practise?’
‘No thanks,’ said Harry. ‘The poor toilet’s never had anything as
horrible as your head down it – it might be sick.’ Then he ran,
before Dudley could work out what he’d said.
One day in July, Aunt Petunia took Dudley to London to buy
his Smeltings uniform, leaving Harry at Mrs Figg’s. Mrs Figg
wasn’t as bad as usual. It turned out she’d broken her leg tripping
over one of her cats and she didn’t seem quite as fond of them
as before. She let Harry watch television and gave him a bit of
 THE LETTERS FROM NO ONE
chocolate cake that tasted as though she’d had it for several years.
That evening, Dudley paraded around the living-room for the
family in his brand-new uniform. Smeltings boys wore maroon
tailcoats, orange knickerbockers and flat straw hats called boaters.
They also carried knobbly sticks, used for hitting each other while
the teachers weren’t looking. This was supposed to be good training
for later life.
As he looked at Dudley in his new knickerbockers, Uncle
Vernon said gruffly that it was the proudest moment of his life.
Aunt Petunia burst into tears and said she couldn’t believe it was
her Ickle Dudleykins, he looked so handsome and grown-up.
Harry didn’t trust himself to speak. He thought two of his ribs
might already have cracked from trying not to laugh.
There was a horrible smell in the kitchen next morning when
Harry went in for breakfast. It seemed to be coming from a large
metal tub in the sink. He went to have a look. The tub was full of
what looked like dirty rags swimming in grey water.
‘What’s this?’ he asked Aunt Petunia. Her lips tightened as they
always did if he dared to ask a question.
‘Your new school uniform,’ she said.
Harry looked in the bowl again.
‘Oh,’ he said. ‘I didn’t realise it had to be so wet.’
‘Don’t be stupid,’ snapped Aunt Petunia. ‘I’m dyeing some of
Dudley’s old things grey for you. It’ll look just like everyone else’s
when I’ve finished.’
Harry seriously doubted this, but thought it best not to argue.
He sat down at the table and tried not to think about how he was
going to look on his first day at Stonewall High – like he was
wearing bits of old elephant skin, probably.
Dudley and Uncle Vernon came in, both with wrinkled noses
because of the smell from Harry’s new uniform. Uncle Vernon
opened his newspaper as usual and Dudley banged his Smeltings
stick, which he carried everywhere, on the table.
They heard the click of the letter-box and flop of letters on the
doormat.
‘Get the post, Dudley,’ said Uncle Vernon from behind his
paper.
‘Make Harry get it.’
‘Get the post, Harry.’
‘Make Dudley get it.’
 HARRY POTTER
‘Poke him with your Smeltings stick, Dudley.’
Harry dodged the Smeltings stick and went to get the post.
Three things lay on the doormat: a postcard from Uncle Vernon’s
sister Marge, who was holidaying on the Isle of Wight, a brown
envelope that looked like a bill and – a letter for Harry.
Harry picked it up and stared at it, his heart twanging like a
giant elastic band. No one, ever, in his whole life, had written to
him. Who would? He had no friends, no other relatives – he
didn’t belong to the library so he’d never even got rude notes
asking for books back. Yet here it was, a letter, addressed so
plainly there could be no mistake:
Mr H. Potter
The Cupboard under the Stairs
 Privet Drive
Little Whinging
Surrey
The envelope was thick and heavy, made of yellowish parchment,
and the address was written in emerald-green ink. There was no
stamp.
Turning the envelope over, his hand trembling, Harry saw a
purple wax seal bearing a coat of arms; a lion, an eagle, a badger
and a snake surrounding a large letter ‘H’.
‘Hurry up, boy!’ shouted Uncle Vernon from the kitchen. ‘What
are you doing, checking for letter-bombs?’ He chuckled at his own
joke.
Harry went back to the kitchen, still staring at his letter. He
handed Uncle Vernon the bill and the postcard, sat down and
slowly began to open the yellow envelope.
Uncle Vernon ripped open the bill, snorted in disgust and
flipped over the postcard.
‘Marge’s ill,’ he informed Aunt Petunia. ‘Ate a funny whelk ...’
‘Dad!’ said Dudley suddenly. ‘Dad, Harry’s got something!’
Harry was on the point of unfolding his letter, which was written on the same heavy parchment as the envelope, when it was
jerked sharply out of his hand by Uncle Vernon.
‘That’s mine!’ said Harry, trying to snatch it back.
‘Who’d be writing to you?’ sneered Uncle Vernon, shaking the
letter open with one hand and glancing at it. His face went from
 THE LETTERS FROM NO ONE
red to green faster than a set of traffic lights. And it didn’t stop
there. Within seconds it was the greyish white of old porridge.
‘P-P-Petunia!’ he gasped.
Dudley tried to grab the letter to read it, but Uncle Vernon held
it high out of his reach. Aunt Petunia took it curiously and read
the first line. For a moment it looked as though she might faint.
She clutched her throat and made a choking noise.
‘Vernon! Oh my goodness – Vernon!’
They stared at each other, seeming to have forgotten that Harry
and Dudley were still in the room. Dudley wasn’t used to being
ignored. He gave his father a sharp tap on the head with his
Smeltings stick.
‘I want to read that letter,’ he said loudly.
‘I want to read it,’ said Harry furiously, ‘as it’s mine.’
‘Get out, both of you,’ croaked Uncle Vernon, stuffing the letter
back inside its envelope.
Harry didn’t move.
‘I WANT MY LETTER!’ he shouted.
‘Let me see it!’ demanded Dudley.
‘OUT!’ roared Uncle Vernon, and he took both Harry and
Dudley by the scruffs of their necks and threw them into the hall,
slamming the kitchen door behind them. Harry and Dudley
promptly had a furious but silent fight over who would listen at
the keyhole; Dudley won, so Harry, his glasses dangling from one
ear, lay flat on his stomach to listen at the crack between door and
floor.
‘Vernon,’ Aunt Petunia was saying in a quivering voice, ‘look at
the address – how could they possibly know where he sleeps? You
don’t think they’re watching the house?’
‘Watching – spying – might be following us,’ muttered Uncle
Vernon wildly.
‘But what should we do, Vernon? Should we write back? Tell
them we don’t want –’
Harry could see Uncle Vernon’s shiny black shoes pacing up
and down the kitchen.
‘No,’ he said finally. ‘No, we’ll ignore it. If they don’t get an
answer ... yes, that’s best ... we won’t do anything ...’
‘But –’
‘I’m not having one in the house, Petunia! Didn’t we swear
when we took him in we’d stamp out that dangerous nonsense?’
 HARRY POTTER
That evening when he got back from work, Uncle Vernon did
something he’d never done before; he visited Harry in his cupboard.
‘Where’s my letter?’ said Harry, the moment Uncle Vernon had
squeezed through the door. ‘Who’s writing to me?’
‘No one. It was addressed to you by mistake,’ said Uncle
Vernon shortly. ‘I have burned it.’
‘It was not a mistake,’ said Harry angrily. ‘It had my cupboard
on it.’
‘SILENCE!’ yelled Uncle Vernon, and a couple of spiders fell
from the ceiling. He took a few deep breaths and then forced his
face into a smile, which looked quite painful.
‘Er – yes, Harry – about this cupboard. Your aunt and I have
been thinking ... you’re really getting a bit big for it ... we think it
might be nice if you moved into Dudley’s second bedroom.’
‘Why?’ said Harry.
‘Don’t ask questions!’ snapped his uncle. ‘Take this stuff
upstairs, now.’
The Dursleys’ house had four bedrooms: one for Uncle Vernon
and Aunt Petunia, one for visitors (usually Uncle Vernon’s sister,
Marge), one where Dudley slept and one where Dudley kept all
the toys and things that wouldn’t fit into his first bedroom. It only
took Harry one trip upstairs to move everything he owned from
the cupboard to this room. He sat down on the bed and stared
around him. Nearly everything in here was broken. The monthold cine-camera was lying on top of a small, working tank Dudley
had once driven over next door’s dog; in the corner was Dudley’s
first-ever television set, which he’d put his foot through when his
favourite programme had been cancelled; there was a large birdcage which had once held a parrot that Dudley had swapped at
school for a real air-rifle, which was up on a shelf with the end all
bent because Dudley had sat on it. Other shelves were full of
books. They were the only things in the room that looked as
though they’d never been touched.
From downstairs came the sound of Dudley bawling at his
mother: ‘I don’t want him in there ... I need that room ... make him
get out ...’
Harry sighed and stretched out on the bed. Yesterday he’d have
given anything to be up here. Today he’d rather be back in his
cupboard with that letter than up here without it.
Next morning at breakfast, everyone was rather quiet. Dudley was
 THE LETTERS FROM NO ONE
in shock. He’d screamed, whacked his father with his Smeltings
stick, been sick on purpose, kicked his mother and thrown his
tortoise through the greenhouse roof and he still didn’t have his
room back. Harry was thinking about this time yesterday and
bitterly wishing he’d opened the letter in the hall. Uncle Vernon
and Aunt Petunia kept looking at each other darkly.
When the post arrived, Uncle Vernon, who seemed to be trying
to be nice to Harry, made Dudley go and get it. They heard him
banging things with his Smeltings stick all the way down the hall.
Then he shouted, ‘There’s another one! Mr H. Potter, The Smallest
Bedroom, Privet Drive –’
With a strangled cry, Uncle Vernon leapt from his seat and ran
down the hall, Harry right behind him. Uncle Vernon had to
wrestle Dudley to the ground to get the letter from him, which
was made difficult by the fact that Harry had grabbed Uncle
Vernon around the neck from behind. After a minute of confused
fighting, in which everyone got hit a lot by the Smeltings stick,
Uncle Vernon straightened up, gasping for breath, with Harry’s
letter clutched in his hand.
‘Go to your cupboard – I mean, your bedroom,’ he wheezed at
Harry. ‘Dudley – go – just go.’
Harry walked round and round his new room. Someone knew
he had moved out of his cupboard and they seemed to know he
hadn’t received his first letter. Surely that meant they’d try again?
And this time he’d make sure they didn’t fail. He had a plan.
*
The repaired alarm clock rang at six o’clock the next morning.
Harry turned it off quickly and dressed silently. He mustn’t wake
the Dursleys. He stole downstairs without turning on any of the
lights.
He was going to wait for the postman on the corner of Privet
Drive and get the letters for number four first. His heart hammered
as he crept across the dark hall towards the front door –
‘AAAAARRRGH!’
Harry leapt into the air – he’d trodden on something big and
squashy on the doormat – something alive!
Lights clicked on upstairs and to his horror Harry realised that
the big squashy something had been his uncle’s face. Uncle
Vernon had been lying at the foot of the front door in a sleeping
bag, clearly making sure that Harry didn’t do exactly what he’d
 HARRY POTTER
been trying to do. He shouted at Harry for about half an hour and
then told him to go and make a cup of tea. Harry shuffled miserably off into the kitchen, and by the time he got back, the post
had arrived, right into Uncle Vernon’s lap. Harry could see three
letters addressed in green ink.
‘I want –’ he began, but Uncle Vernon was tearing the letters
into pieces before his eyes.
Uncle Vernon didn’t go to work that day. He stayed at home
and nailed up the letter-box.
‘See,’ he explained to Aunt Petunia through a mouthful of nails,
‘if they can’t deliver them they’ll just give up.’
‘I’m not sure that’ll work, Vernon.’
‘Oh, these people’s minds work in strange ways, Petunia,
they’re not like you and me,’ said Uncle Vernon, trying to knock
in a nail with the piece of fruit cake Aunt Petunia had just
brought him.
*
On Friday, no fewer than twelve letters arrived for Harry. As they
couldn’t go through the letter-box they had been pushed under
the door, slotted through the sides and a few even forced through
the small window in the downstairs toilet.
Uncle Vernon stayed at home again. After burning all the letters,
he got out a hammer and nails and boarded up the cracks around
the front and back doors so no one could go out. He hummed
‘Tiptoe through the Tulips’ as he worked, and jumped at small
noises.
*
On Saturday, things began to get out of hand. Twenty-four letters
to Harry found their way into the house, rolled up and hidden
inside each of the two dozen eggs that their very confused milkman had handed Aunt Petunia through the living-room window.
While Uncle Vernon made furious telephone calls to the post
office and the dairy trying to find someone to complain to, Aunt
Petunia shredded the letters in her food mixer.
‘Who on earth wants to talk to you this badly?’ Dudley asked
Harry in amazement.
*
On Sunday morning, Uncle Vernon sat down at the breakfast table
looking tired and rather ill, but happy.
‘No post on Sundays,’ he reminded them happily as he spread
 THE LETTERS FROM NO ONE
marmalade on his newspapers, ‘no damn letters today –’
Something came whizzing down the kitchen chimney as he
spoke and caught him sharply on the back of the head. Next
moment, thirty or forty letters came pelting out of the fireplace
like bullets. The Dursleys ducked, but Harry leapt into the air
trying to catch one –
‘Out! OUT!’
Uncle Vernon seized Harry around the waist and threw him
into the hall. When Aunt Petunia and Dudley had run out with
their arms over their faces, Uncle Vernon slammed the door shut.
They could hear the letters still streaming into the room,
bouncing off the walls and floor.
‘That does it,’ said Uncle Vernon, trying to speak calmly but
pulling great tufts out of his moustache at the same time. ‘I want
you all back here in five minutes, ready to leave. We’re going
away. Just pack some clothes. No arguments!’
He looked so dangerous with half his moustache missing that
no one dared argue. Ten minutes later they had wrenched their
way through the boarded-up doors and were in the car, speeding
towards the motorway. Dudley was sniffling in the back seat;
his father had hit him round the head for holding them up while
he tried to pack his television, video and computer in his sports
bag.
They drove. And they drove. Even Aunt Petunia didn’t dare ask
where they were going. Every now and then Uncle Vernon would
take a sharp turning and drive in the opposite direction for a
while.
‘Shake ’em off ... shake ’em off,’ he would mutter whenever he
did this.
They didn’t stop to eat or drink all day. By nightfall Dudley was
howling. He’d never had such a bad day in his life. He was hungry,
he’d missed five television programmes he’d wanted to see and
he’d never gone so long without blowing up an alien on his
computer.
Uncle Vernon stopped at last outside a gloomy-looking hotel
on the outskirts of a big city. Dudley and Harry shared a room
with twin beds and damp, musty sheets. Dudley snored but Harry
stayed awake, sitting on the windowsill, staring down at the lights
of passing cars and wondering ...
*
 HARRY POTTER
They ate stale cornflakes and cold tinned tomatoes on toast for
breakfast next day. They had just finished when the owner of the
hotel came over to their table.
‘’Scuse me, but is one of you Mr H. Potter? Only I got about an
’undred of these at the front desk.’
She held up a letter so they could read the green ink address:
Mr H. Potter
Room
Railview Hotel
Cokeworth
Harry made a grab for the letter but Uncle Vernon knocked his
hand out of the way. The woman stared.
‘I’ll take them,’ said Uncle Vernon, standing up quickly and
following her from the dining-room.
*
‘Wouldn’t it be better just to go home, dear?’ Aunt Petunia suggested timidly, hours later, but Uncle Vernon didn’t seem to hear
her. Exactly what he was looking for, none of them knew. He
drove them into the middle of a forest, got out, looked around,
shook his head, got back in the car and off they went again. The
same thing happened in the middle of a ploughed field, halfway
across a suspension bridge and at the top of a multi-storey car
park.
‘Daddy’s gone mad, hasn’t he?’ Dudley asked Aunt Petunia
dully late that afternoon. Uncle Vernon had parked at the coast,
locked them all inside the car and disappeared.
It started to rain. Great drops beat on the roof of the car.
Dudley snivelled.
‘It’s Monday,’ he told his mother. ‘The Great Humberto’s on
tonight. I want to stay somewhere with a television.’
Monday. This reminded Harry of something. If it was Monday –
and you could usually count on Dudley to know the days of the
week, because of television – then tomorrow, Tuesday, was Harry’s
eleventh birthday. Of course, his birthdays were never exactly fun
– last year, the Dursleys had given him a coat-hanger and a pair of
Uncle Vernon’s old socks. Still, you weren’t eleven every day.
Uncle Vernon was back and he was smiling. He was also carrying a long, thin package and didn’t answer Aunt Petunia when she
 THE LETTERS FROM NO ONE
asked what he’d bought.
‘Found the perfect place!’ he said. ‘Come on! Everyone out!’
It was very cold outside the car. Uncle Vernon was pointing at
what looked like a large rock way out to sea. Perched on top of
the rock was the most miserable little shack you could imagine.
One thing was certain, there was no television in there.
‘Storm forecast for tonight!’ said Uncle Vernon gleefully, clapping
his hands together. ‘And this gentleman’s kindly agreed to lend us
his boat!’
A toothless old man came ambling up to them, pointing, with a
rather wicked grin, at an old rowing boat bobbing in the iron-grey
water below them.
‘I’ve already got us some rations,’ said Uncle Vernon, ‘so all
aboard!’
It was freezing in the boat. Icy sea spray and rain crept down
their necks and a chilly wind whipped their faces. After what
seemed like hours they reached the rock, where Uncle Vernon,
slipping and sliding, led the way to the broken-down house.
The inside was horrible; it smelled strongly of seaweed, the
wind whistled through the gaps in the wooden walls and the fireplace was damp and empty. There were only two rooms.
Uncle Vernon’s rations turned out to be a packet of crisps each
and four bananas. He tried to start a fire but the empty crisp packets
just smoked and shrivelled up.
‘Could do with some of those letters now, eh?’ he said cheerfully.
He was in a very good mood. Obviously he thought nobody
stood a chance of reaching them here in a storm to deliver post.
Harry privately agreed, though the thought didn’t cheer him up at
all.
As night fell, the promised storm blew up around them. Spray
from the high waves splattered the walls of the hut and a fierce
wind rattled the filthy windows. Aunt Petunia found a few
mouldy blankets in the second room and made up a bed for
Dudley on the moth-eaten sofa. She and Uncle Vernon went off to
the lumpy bed next door and Harry was left to find the softest bit
of floor he could and to curl up under the thinnest, most ragged
blanket.
The storm raged more and more ferociously as the night went
on. Harry couldn’t sleep. He shivered and turned over, trying to
 HARRY POTTER
get comfortable, his stomach rumbling with hunger. Dudley’s
snores were drowned by the low rolls of thunder that started near
midnight. The lighted dial of Dudley’s watch, which was dangling
over the edge of the sofa on his fat wrist, told Harry he’d be eleven
in ten minutes’ time. He lay and watched his birthday tick nearer,
wondering if the Dursleys would remember at all, wondering
where the letter-writer was now.
Five minutes to go. Harry heard something creak outside. He
hoped the roof wasn’t going to fall in, although he might be
warmer if it did. Four minutes to go. Maybe the house in Privet
Drive would be so full of letters when they got back that he’d be
able to steal one somehow.
Three minutes to go. Was that the sea, slapping hard on the
rock like that? And (two minutes to go) what was that funny
crunching noise? Was the rock crumbling into the sea?
One minute to go and he’d be eleven. Thirty seconds ... twenty
... ten – nine – maybe he’d wake Dudley up, just to annoy him –
three – two – one –
BOOM.
The whole shack shivered and Harry sat bolt upright, staring at
the door. Someone was outside, knocking to come in.

Mark Twain (Samuel Clemens)


The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn

NOTICE

PERSONS attempting to find a motive in this narrative will be prosecuted; persons attempting to find a moral in it will be banished; persons attempting to find a plot in it will be shot.

    BY ORDER OF THE AUTHOR, Per G.G., Chief of Ordnance.


EXPLANATORY

IN this book a number of dialects are used, to wit: the Missouri negro dialect; the extremest form of the backwoods Southwestern dialect; the ordinary «Pike County» dialect; and four modified varieties of this last. The shadings have not been done in a haphazard fashion, or by guesswork; but painstakingly, and with the trustworthy guidance and support of personal familiarity with these several forms of speech.

I make this explanation for the reason that without it many readers would suppose that all these characters were trying to talk alike and not succeeding.

    THE AUTHOR.



CHAPTER I.

YOU don't know about me without you have read a book by the name of The Adventures of Tom Sawyer; but that ain't no matter. That book was made by Mr. Mark Twain, and he told the truth, mainly. There was things which he stretched, but mainly he told the truth. That is nothing. I never seen anybody but lied one time or another, without it was Aunt Polly, or the widow, or maybe Mary. Aunt Polly-Tom's Aunt Polly, she is-and Mary, and the Widow Douglas is all told about in that book, which is mostly a true book, with some stretchers, as I said before.

Now the way that the book winds up is this: Tom and me found the money that the robbers hid in the cave, and it made us rich. We got six thousand dollars apiece-all gold. It was an awful sight of money when it was piled up. Well, Judge Thatcher he took it and put it out at interest, and it fetched us a dollar a day apiece all the year round

—more than a body could tell what to do with. The Widow Douglas she took me for her son, and allowed she would sivilize me; but it was rough living in the house all the time, considering how dismal regular and decent the widow was in all her ways; and so when I couldn't stand it no longer I lit out. I got into my old rags and my sugar-hogshead again, and was free and satisfied. But Tom Sawyer he hunted me up and said he was going to start a band of robbers, and I might join if I would go back to the widow and be respectable. So I went back.

The widow she cried over me, and called me a poor lost lamb, and she called me a lot of other names, too, but she never meant no harm by it. She put me in them new clothes again, and I couldn't do nothing but sweat and sweat, and feel all cramped up. Well, then, the old thing commenced again. The widow rung a bell for supper, and you had to come to time. When you got to the table you couldn't go right to eating, but you had to wait for the widow to tuck down her head and grumble a little over the victuals, though there warn't really anything the matter with them,-that is, nothing only everything was cooked by itself. In a barrel of odds and ends it is different; things get mixed up, and the juice kind of swaps around, and the things go better.

After supper she got out her book and learned me about Moses and the Bulrushers, and I was in a sweat to find out all about him; but by and by she let it out that Moses had been dead a considerable long time; so then I didn't care no more about him, because I don't take no stock in dead people.

Pretty soon I wanted to smoke, and asked the widow to let me. But she wouldn't. She said it was a mean practice and wasn't clean, and I must try to not do it any more. That is just the way with some people. They get down on a thing when they don't know nothing about it. Here she was a-bothering about Moses, which was no kin to her, and no use to anybody, being gone, you see, yet finding a power of fault with me for doing a thing that had some good in it. And she took snuff, too; of course that was all right, because she done it herself.

Her sister, Miss Watson, a tolerable slim old maid, with goggles on, had just come to live with her, and took a set at me now with a spelling-book. She worked me middling hard for about an hour, and then the widow made her ease up. I couldn't stood it much longer. Then for an hour it was deadly dull, and I was fidgety. Miss Watson would say, «Don't put your feet up there, Huckleberry;« and «Don't scrunch up like that, Huckleberry-set up straight;« and pretty soon she would say, «Don't gap and stretch like that, Huckleberry-why don't you try to behave?» Then she told me all about the bad place, and I said I wished I was there. She got mad then, but I didn't mean no harm. All I wanted was to go somewheres; all I wanted was a change, I warn't particular. She said it was wicked to say what I said; said she wouldn't say it for the whole world; she was going to live so as to go to the good place. Well, I couldn't see no advantage in going where she was going, so I made up my mind I wouldn't try for it. But I never said so, because it would only make trouble, and wouldn't do no good.

Now she had got a start, and she went on and told me all about the good place. She said all a body would have to do there was to go around all day long with a harp and sing, forever and ever. So I didn't think much of it. But I never said so. I asked her if she reckoned Tom Sawyer would go there, and she said not by a considerable sight. I was glad about that, because I wanted him and me to be together.

Miss Watson she kept pecking at me, and it got tiresome and lonesome. By and by they fetched the niggers in and had prayers, and then everybody was off to bed. I went up to my room with a piece of candle, and put it on the table. Then I set down in a chair by the window and tried to think of something cheerful, but it warn't no use. I felt so lonesome I most wished I was dead. The stars were shining, and the leaves rustled in the woods ever so mournful; and I heard an owl, away off, who-whooing about somebody that was dead, and a whippowill and a dog crying about somebody that was going to die; and the wind was trying to whisper something to me, and I couldn't make out what it was, and so it made the cold shivers run over me. Then away out in the woods I heard that kind of a sound that a ghost makes when it wants to tell about something that's on its mind and can't make itself understood, and so can't rest easy in its grave, and has to go about that way every night grieving. I got so down-hearted and scared I did wish I had some company. Pretty soon a spider went crawling up my shoulder, and I flipped it off and it lit in the candle; and before I could budge it was all shriveled up. I didn't need anybody to tell me that that was an awful bad sign and would fetch me some bad luck, so I was scared and most shook the clothes off of me. I got up and turned around in my tracks three times and crossed my breast every time; and then I tied up a little lock of my hair with a thread to keep witches away. But I hadn't no confidence. You do that when you've lost a horseshoe that you've found, instead of nailing it up over the door, but I hadn't ever heard anybody say it was any way to keep off bad luck when you'd killed a spider.

I set down again, a-shaking all over, and got out my pipe for a smoke; for the house was all as still as death now, and so the widow wouldn't know. Well, after a long time I heard the clock away off in the town go boom-boom-boom-twelve licks; and all still again-stiller than ever. Pretty soon I heard a twig snap down in the dark amongst the trees

—something was a stirring. I set still and listened. Directly I could just barely hear a «me-yow! me-yow!» down there. That was good! Says I, «me-yow! me-yow!» as soft as I could, and then I put out the light and scrambled out of the window on to the shed. Then I slipped down to the ground and crawled in among the trees, and, sure enough, there was Tom Sawyer waiting for me.



CHAPTER II.

WE went tiptoeing along a path amongst the trees back towards the end of the widow's garden, stooping down so as the branches wouldn't scrape our heads. When we was passing by the kitchen I fell over a root and made a noise. We scrouched down and laid still. Miss Watson's big nigger, named Jim, was setting in the kitchen door; we could see him pretty clear, because there was a light behind him. He got up and stretched his neck out about a minute, listening. Then he says:

«Who dah?»

He listened some more; then he come tiptoeing down and stood right between us; we could a touched him, nearly. Well, likely it was minutes and minutes that there warn't a sound, and we all there so close together. There was a place on my ankle that got to itching, but I dasn't scratch it; and then my ear begun to itch; and next my back, right between my shoulders. Seemed like I'd die if I couldn't scratch. Well, I've noticed that thing plenty times since. If you are with the quality, or at a funeral, or trying to go to sleep when you ain't sleepy-if you are anywheres where it won't do for you to scratch, why you will itch all over in upwards of a thousand places. Pretty soon Jim says:

«Say, who is you? Whar is you? Dog my cats ef I didn' hear sumf'n. Well, I know what I's gwyne to do: I's gwyne to set down here and listen tell I hears it agin.»

So he set down on the ground betwixt me and Tom. He leaned his back up against a tree, and stretched his legs out till one of them most touched one of mine. My nose begun to itch. It itched till the tears come into my eyes. But I dasn't scratch. Then it begun to itch on the inside. Next I got to itching underneath. I didn't know how I was going to set still. This miserableness went on as much as six or seven minutes; but it seemed a sight longer than that. I was itching in eleven different places now. I reckoned I couldn't stand it more'n a minute longer, but I set my teeth hard and got ready to try. Just then Jim begun to breathe heavy; next he begun to snore-and then I was pretty soon comfortable again.

Tom he made a sign to me-kind of a little noise with his mouth-and we went creeping away on our hands and knees. When we was ten foot off Tom whispered to me, and wanted to tie Jim to the tree for fun. But I said no; he might wake and make a disturbance, and then they'd find out I warn't in. Then Tom said he hadn't got candles enough, and he would slip in the kitchen and get some more. I didn't want him to try. I said Jim might wake up and come. But Tom wanted to resk it; so we slid in there and got three candles, and Tom laid five cents on the table for pay. Then we got out, and I was in a sweat to get away; but nothing would do Tom but he must crawl to where Jim was, on his hands and knees, and play something on him. I waited, and it seemed a good while, everything was so still and lonesome.

As soon as Tom was back we cut along the path, around the garden fence, and by and by fetched up on the steep top of the hill the other side of the house. Tom said he slipped Jim's hat off of his head and hung it on a limb right over him, and Jim stirred a little, but he didn't wake. Afterwards Jim said the witches be witched him and put him in a trance, and rode him all over the State, and then set him under the trees again, and hung his hat on a limb to show who done it. And next time Jim told it he said they rode him down to New Orleans; and, after that, every time he told it he spread it more and more, till by and by he said they rode him all over the world, and tired him most to death, and his back was all over saddle-boils. Jim was monstrous proud about it, and he got so he wouldn't hardly notice the other niggers. Niggers would come miles to hear Jim tell about it, and he was more looked up to than any nigger in that country. Strange niggers would stand with their mouths open and look him all over, same as if he was a wonder. Niggers is always talking about witches in the dark by the kitchen fire; but whenever one was talking and letting on to know all about such things, Jim would happen in and say, «Hm! What you know 'bout witches?» and that nigger was corked up and had to take a back seat. Jim always kept that five-center piece round his neck with a string, and said it was a charm the devil give to him with his own hands, and told him he could cure anybody with it and fetch witches whenever he wanted to just by saying something to it; but he never told what it was he said to it. Niggers would come from all around there and give Jim anything they had, just for a sight of that five-center piece; but they wouldn't touch it, because the devil had had his hands on it. Jim was most ruined for a servant, because he got stuck up on account of having seen the devil and been rode by witches.

Well, when Tom and me got to the edge of the hilltop we looked away down into the village and could see three or four lights twinkling, where there was sick folks, maybe; and the stars over us was sparkling ever so fine; and down by the village was the river, a whole mile broad, and awful still and grand. We went down the hill and found Jo Harper and Ben Rogers, and two or three more of the boys, hid in the old tanyard. So we unhitched a skiff and pulled down the river two mile and a half, to the big scar on the hillside, and went ashore.

We went to a clump of bushes, and Tom made everybody swear to keep the secret, and then showed them a hole in the hill, right in the thickest part of the bushes. Then we lit the candles, and crawled in on our hands and knees. We went about two hundred yards, and then the cave opened up. Tom poked about amongst the passages, and pretty soon ducked under a wall where you wouldn't a noticed that there was a hole. We went along a narrow place and got into a kind of room, all damp and sweaty and cold, and there we stopped. Tom says:

«Now, we'll start this band of robbers and call it Tom Sawyer's Gang. Everybody that wants to join has got to take an oath, and write his name in blood.»

Everybody was willing. So Tom got out a sheet of paper that he had wrote the oath on, and read it. It swore every boy to stick to the band, and never tell any of the secrets; and if anybody done anything to any boy in the band, whichever boy was ordered to kill that person and his family must do it, and he mustn't eat and he mustn't sleep till he had killed them and hacked a cross in their breasts, which was the sign of the band. And nobody that didn't belong to the band could use that mark, and if he did he must be sued; and if he done it again he must be killed. And if anybody that belonged to the band told the secrets, he must have his throat cut, and then have his carcass burnt up and the ashes scattered all around, and his name blotted off of the list with blood and never mentioned again by the gang, but have a curse put on it and be forgot forever.

Everybody said it was a real beautiful oath, and asked Tom if he got it out of his own head. He said, some of it, but the rest was out of pirate-books and robber-books, and every gang that was high-toned had it.

Some thought it would be good to kill the FAMILIES of boys that told the secrets. Tom said it was a good idea, so he took a pencil and wrote it in. Then Ben Rogers says:

«Here's Huck Finn, he hain't got no family; what you going to do 'bout him?»

«Well, hain't he got a father?» says Tom Sawyer.

«Yes, he's got a father, but you can't never find him these days. He used to lay drunk with the hogs in the tanyard, but he hain't been seen in these parts for a year or more.»

They talked it over, and they was going to rule me out, because they said every boy must have a family or somebody to kill, or else it wouldn't be fair and square for the others. Well, nobody could think of anything to do-everybody was stumped, and set still. I was most ready to cry; but all at once I thought of a way, and so I offered them Miss Watson-they could kill her. Everybody said:

«Oh, she'll do. That's all right. Huck can come in.»

Then they all stuck a pin in their fingers to get blood to sign with, and I made my mark on the paper.

«Now,» says Ben Rogers, «what's the line of business of this Gang?»

«Nothing only robbery and murder,» Tom said.

«But who are we going to rob?-houses, or cattle, or-«

«Stuff! stealing cattle and such things ain't robbery; it's burglary,» says Tom Sawyer. «We ain't burglars. That ain't no sort of style. We are highwaymen. We stop stages and carriages on the road, with masks on, and kill the people and take their watches and money.»

«Must we always kill the people?»

«Oh, certainly. It's best. Some authorities think different, but mostly it's considered best to kill them-except some that you bring to the cave here, and keep them till they're ransomed.»

«Ransomed? What's that?»

«I don't know. But that's what they do. I've seen it in books; and so of course that's what we've got to do.»

«But how can we do it if we don't know what it is?»

«Why, blame it all, we've GOT to do it. Don't I tell you it's in the books? Do you want to go to doing different from what's in the books, and get things all muddled up?»

«Oh, that's all very fine to SAY, Tom Sawyer, but how in the nation are these fellows going to be ransomed if we don't know how to do it to them?

—that's the thing I want to get at. Now, what do you reckon it is?»

«Well, I don't know. But per'aps if we keep them till they're ransomed, it means that we keep them till they're dead.»

«Now, that's something LIKE. That'll answer. Why couldn't you said that before? We'll keep them till they're ransomed to death; and a bothersome lot they'll be, too-eating up everything, and always trying to get loose.»

«How you talk, Ben Rogers. How can they get loose when there's a guard over them, ready to shoot them down if they move a peg?»

«A guard! Well, that IS good. So somebody's got to set up all night and never get any sleep, just so as to watch them. I think that's foolishness. Why can't a body take a club and ransom them as soon as they get here?»

«Because it ain't in the books so-that's why. Now, Ben Rogers, do you want to do things regular, or don't you?-that's the idea. Don't you reckon that the people that made the books knows what's the correct thing to do? Do you reckon YOU can learn 'em anything? Not by a good deal. No, sir, we'll just go on and ransom them in the regular way.»

«All right. I don't mind; but I say it's a fool way, anyhow. Say, do we kill the women, too?»

«Well, Ben Rogers, if I was as ignorant as you I wouldn't let on. Kill the women? No; nobody ever saw anything in the books like that. You fetch them to the cave, and you're always as polite as pie to them; and by and by they fall in love with you, and never want to go home any more.»

«Well, if that's the way I'm agreed, but I don't take no stock in it. Mighty soon we'll have the cave so cluttered up with women, and fellows waiting to be ransomed, that there won't be no place for the robbers. But go ahead, I ain't got nothing to say.»

Little Tommy Barnes was asleep now, and when they waked him up he was scared, and cried, and said he wanted to go home to his ma, and didn't want to be a robber any more.

So they all made fun of him, and called him cry-baby, and that made him mad, and he said he would go straight and tell all the secrets. But Tom give him five cents to keep quiet, and said we would all go home and meet next week, and rob somebody and kill some people.

Ben Rogers said he couldn't get out much, only Sundays, and so he wanted to begin next Sunday; but all the boys said it would be wicked to do it on Sunday, and that settled the thing. They agreed to get together and fix a day as soon as they could, and then we elected Tom Sawyer first captain and Jo Harper second captain of the Gang, and so started home.

I clumb up the shed and crept into my window just before day was breaking. My new clothes was all greased up and clayey, and I was dog-tired.



CHAPTER III.

WELL, I got a good going-over in the morning from old Miss Watson on account of my clothes; but the widow she didn't scold, but only cleaned off the grease and clay, and looked so sorry that I thought I would behave awhile if I could. Then Miss Watson she took me in the closet and prayed, but nothing come of it. She told me to pray every day, and whatever I asked for I would get it. But it warn't so. I tried it. Once I got a fish-line, but no hooks. It warn't any good to me without hooks. I tried for the hooks three or four times, but somehow I couldn't make it work. By and by, one day, I asked Miss Watson to try for me, but she said I was a fool. She never told me why, and I couldn't make it out no way.

I set down one time back in the woods, and had a long think about it. I says to myself, if a body can get anything they pray for, why don't Deacon Winn get back the money he lost on pork? Why can't the widow get back her silver snuffbox that was stole? Why can't Miss Watson fat up? No, says I to my self, there ain't nothing in it. I went and told the widow about it, and she said the thing a body could get by praying for it was «spiritual gifts.» This was too many for me, but she told me what she meant-I must help other people, and do everything I could for other people, and look out for them all the time, and never think about myself. This was including Miss Watson, as I took it. I went out in the woods and turned it over in my mind a long time, but I couldn't see no advantage about it-except for the other people; so at last I reckoned I wouldn't worry about it any more, but just let it go. Sometimes the widow would take me one side and talk about Providence in a way to make a body's mouth water; but maybe next day Miss Watson would take hold and knock it all down again. I judged I could see that there was two Providences, and a poor chap would stand considerable show with the widow's Providence, but if Miss Watson's got him there warn't no help for him any more. I thought it all out, and reckoned I would belong to the widow's if he wanted me, though I couldn't make out how he was a-going to be any better off then than what he was before, seeing I was so ignorant, and so kind of low-down and ornery.

Pap he hadn't been seen for more than a year, and that was comfortable for me; I didn't want to see him no more. He used to always whale me when he was sober and could get his hands on me; though I used to take to the woods most of the time when he was around. Well, about this time he was found in the river drownded, about twelve mile above town, so people said. They judged it was him, anyway; said this drownded man was just his size, and was ragged, and had uncommon long hair, which was all like pap; but they couldn't make nothing out of the face, because it had been in the water so long it warn't much like a face at all. They said he was floating on his back in the water. They took him and buried him on the bank. But I warn't comfortable long, because I happened to think of something. I knowed mighty well that a drownded man don't float on his back, but on his face. So I knowed, then, that this warn't pap, but a woman dressed up in a man's clothes. So I was uncomfortable again. I judged the old man would turn up again by and by, though I wished he wouldn't.

We played robber now and then about a month, and then I resigned. All the boys did. We hadn't robbed nobody, hadn't killed any people, but only just pretended. We used to hop out of the woods and go charging down on hog-drivers and women in carts taking garden stuff to market, but we never hived any of them. Tom Sawyer called the hogs «ingots,» and he called the turnips and stuff «julery,» and we would go to the cave and powwow over what we had done, and how many people we had killed and marked. But I couldn't see no profit in it. One time Tom sent a boy to run about town with a blazing stick, which he called a slogan (which was the sign for the Gang to get together), and then he said he had got secret news by his spies that next day a whole parcel of Spanish merchants and rich A-rabs was going to camp in Cave Hollow with two hundred elephants, and six hundred camels, and over a thousand «sumter» mules, all loaded down with di'monds, and they didn't have only a guard of four hundred soldiers, and so we would lay in ambuscade, as he called it, and kill the lot and scoop the things. He said we must slick up our swords and guns, and get ready. He never could go after even a turnip-cart but he must have the swords and guns all scoured up for it, though they was only lath and broomsticks, and you might scour at them till you rotted, and then they warn't worth a mouthful of ashes more than what they was before. I didn't believe we could lick such a crowd of Spaniards and A-rabs, but I wanted to see the camels and elephants, so I was on hand next day, Saturday, in the ambuscade; and when we got the word we rushed out of the woods and down the hill. But there warn't no Spaniards and A-rabs, and there warn't no camels nor no elephants. It warn't anything but a Sunday-school picnic, and only a primer-class at that. We busted it up, and chased the children up the hollow; but we never got anything but some doughnuts and jam, though Ben Rogers got a rag doll, and Jo Harper got a hymn-book and a tract; and then the teacher charged in, and made us drop everything and cut. I didn't see no di'monds, and I told Tom Sawyer so. He said there was loads of them there, anyway; and he said there was A-rabs there, too, and elephants and things. I said, why couldn't we see them, then? He said if I warn't so ignorant, but had read a book called Don Quixote, I would know without asking. He said it was all done by enchantment. He said there was hundreds of soldiers there, and elephants and treasure, and so on, but we had enemies which he called magicians; and they had turned the whole thing into an infant Sunday-school, just out of spite. I said, all right; then the thing for us to do was to go for the magicians. Tom Sawyer said I was a numskull.

«Why,» said he, «a magician could call up a lot of genies, and they would hash you up like nothing before you could say Jack Robinson. They are as tall as a tree and as big around as a church.»

«Well,» I says, «s'pose we got some genies to help US-can't we lick the other crowd then?»

«How you going to get them?»

«I don't know. How do THEY get them?»

«Why, they rub an old tin lamp or an iron ring, and then the genies come tearing in, with the thunder and lightning a-ripping around and the smoke a-rolling, and everything they're told to do they up and do it. They don't think nothing of pulling a shot-tower up by the roots, and belting a Sunday-school superintendent over the head with it-or any other man.»

«Who makes them tear around so?»

«Why, whoever rubs the lamp or the ring. They belong to whoever rubs the lamp or the ring, and they've got to do whatever he says. If he tells them to build a palace forty miles long out of di'monds, and fill it full of chewing-gum, or whatever you want, and fetch an emperor's daughter from China for you to marry, they've got to do it-and they've got to do it before sun-up next morning, too. And more: they've got to waltz that palace around over the country wherever you want it, you understand.»

«Well,» says I, «I think they are a pack of flat-heads for not keeping the palace themselves 'stead of fooling them away like that. And what's more-if I was one of them I would see a man in Jericho before I would drop my business and come to him for the rubbing of an old tin lamp.»

«How you talk, Huck Finn. Why, you'd HAVE to come when he rubbed it, whether you wanted to or not.»

«What! and I as high as a tree and as big as a church? All right, then; I WOULD come; but I lay I'd make that man climb the highest tree there was in the country.»

«Shucks, it ain't no use to talk to you, Huck Finn. You don't seem to know anything, somehow-perfect saphead.»

I thought all this over for two or three days, and then I reckoned I would see if there was anything in it. I got an old tin lamp and an iron ring, and went out in the woods and rubbed and rubbed till I sweat like an Injun, calculating to build a palace and sell it; but it warn't no use, none of the genies come. So then I judged that all that stuff was only just one of Tom Sawyer's lies. I reckoned he believed in the A-rabs and the elephants, but as for me I think different. It had all the marks of a Sunday-school.



CHAPTER IV.

WELL, three or four months run along, and it was well into the winter now. I had been to school most all the time and could spell and read and write just a little, and could say the multiplication table up to six times seven is thirty-five, and I don't reckon I could ever get any further than that if I was to live forever. I don't take no stock in mathematics, anyway.

At first I hated the school, but by and by I got so I could stand it. Whenever I got uncommon tired I played hookey, and the hiding I got next day done me good and cheered me up. So the longer I went to school the easier it got to be. I was getting sort of used to the widow's ways, too, and they warn't so raspy on me. Living in a house and sleeping in a bed pulled on me pretty tight mostly, but before the cold weather I used to slide out and sleep in the woods sometimes, and so that was a rest to me. I liked the old ways best, but I was getting so I liked the new ones, too, a little bit. The widow said I was coming along slow but sure, and doing very satisfactory. She said she warn't ashamed of me.

One morning I happened to turn over the salt-cellar at breakfast. I reached for some of it as quick as I could to throw over my left shoulder and keep off the bad luck, but Miss Watson was in ahead of me, and crossed me off. She says, «Take your hands away, Huckleberry; what a mess you are always making!» The widow put in a good word for me, but that warn't going to keep off the bad luck, I knowed that well enough. I started out, after breakfast, feeling worried and shaky, and wondering where it was going to fall on me, and what it was going to be. There is ways to keep off some kinds of bad luck, but this wasn't one of them kind; so I never tried to do anything, but just poked along low-spirited and on the watch-out.

I went down to the front garden and clumb over the stile where you go through the high board fence. There was an inch of new snow on the ground, and I seen somebody's tracks. They had come up from the quarry and stood around the stile a while, and then went on around the garden fence. It was funny they hadn't come in, after standing around so. I couldn't make it out. It was very curious, somehow. I was going to follow around, but I stooped down to look at the tracks first. I didn't notice anything at first, but next I did. There was a cross in the left boot-heel made with big nails, to keep off the devil.

I was up in a second and shinning down the hill. I looked over my shoulder every now and then, but I didn't see nobody. I was at Judge Thatcher's as quick as I could get there. He said:

«Why, my boy, you are all out of breath. Did you come for your interest?»

«No, sir,» I says; «is there some for me?»

«Oh, yes, a half-yearly is in last night-over a hundred and fifty dollars. Quite a fortune for you. You had better let me invest it along with your six thousand, because if you take it you'll spend it.»

«No, sir,» I says, «I don't want to spend it. I don't want it at all

—nor the six thousand, nuther. I want you to take it; I want to give it to you-the six thousand and all.»

He looked surprised. He couldn't seem to make it out. He says:

«Why, what can you mean, my boy?»